---
title: Declaration of Occupation
subtitle: Established by the Lord Admiral
type: CONSTITUTION
order: -1000
current: true
---
The articles herein denote the powers and duties of the Lord Admiral of the
Admiralty of Wesbury, and of how and why they'll be protected and exercised.

<br/>

## Article 1: The Lord Admiral

The Lord Admiral has a duty to the realm: to protect, to cultivate, and to
affect the betterment of the state, its people, and their combined interests;
thus shall have powers unabridged except by the Declaration of Occupation
to perform such duties and until such time as they abdicate or have been absent
in their duties for a significant enough period not explainable by temporary and
commonplace external preoccupations to have in reality or in effect abandoned,
wavered, or be considered no longer fit to serve.

<br/>

## Article 2: Governance

It is the duty of the Lord Admiral to govern and to ensure the proper function
of the institutions of the state as to adequately refine the principles of
fairness, liberty, efficiency, and the rule of law; that should those
institutions become deficient or destructive of these ends, it is the duty of
the Lord Admiral as well as the citizenry to alter or abolish it as to them
shall best affect the continuation of said principles.

Should there be no institutions of the state, the citizenry may submit a
Petition of Assembly to the Lord Admiral to establish a Citizens' Assembly
whereby legislation is passed via majority consensus of the citizenry. Until
such time, the Lord Admiral can pass legislation by issuing Standing Orders.

<br/>

## Article 3: Territory

The territorial claims and borders of the Admiralty of Wesbury as sovereign and
thus under the jurisdiction of the Lord Admiral to whom shall have final
authority and discretion, whereas the lands and waters within those territorial
claims and borders are subject to law as defined and enforced through the courts
and the standard legislative process.

<br/>

## Article 4: Group Ownership

The Lord Admiral shall own all groups and services pertaining to national
security, governance, and communication to ensure security and, where relevant,
the proper transference of power.

<br/>

## Article 5: Amendments

Amendments to the Declaration of Occupation must first receive an adequately
overwhelming consensus of the legislative institution(s) of the state before
then receiving the consent of the Lord Admiral, who may refuse of the basis that
the amendment undermines the effectiveness or the fundamental purpose of the
Declaration of Occupation without the establishment of an adequate replacement.

<br/>

## Article 6: Supremacy

The Declaration of Occupation is supreme to all other laws. Any and all laws
that come into conflict with the Declaration of Occupation shall be considered
invalid.

<br/>

## Article 7: Jurisprudence

The supremacy of the Declaration of Occupation necessitates a Supreme Court to
preside over any issues of Constitutionality. The Lord Admiral shall have sole
discretion over the Supreme Court and its judges, who shall, in their verdicts,
carry the authority of the Lord Admiral and the Declaration of Occupation.

<br/>

## Article 8: Entrenchment

Other laws may request and receive constitutionality and thus entrenchment
through the same means as amending the Declaration of Occupation.
